doc for apply-once-only (#649)
oam-dev/kubevela: design/vela-core/apply-once-only.md

- Owner: Yue Wang(@captainroy-hy), Jianbo Sun(@wonderflow)
- Date: 11/24/2020
- Status: Implemented

## Intro
When an ApplicationConfiguration is deployed, 
vela-core will create(apply) corresponding workload/trait instances and keep them stay align with the `spec` defined in ApplicationConfiguration through periodical reconciliation. 

If we run vela-core with `--apply-once-only` flag enabled, vela-core will never apply the workload and trait instance after they are applied once. Even if they are changed by others (e.g., trait controller, workload controller,etc). 
Since the create operation is the only one apply operation occurring on workload/trait, we call this mechanism as `Apply Once Only`.

## A Motivational Example
Here is a scenario from production environment to demonstrate how `Apply Once Only` works.

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha2
kind: ApplicationConfiguration
metadata:
  name: example-appconfig
spec:
  components:
    - componentName: example-component
---
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha2
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: example-component
spec:
  workload:
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    spec:
      ...

>       template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      template:
```

# Apply-Once-Only: Apply workload/trait only when spec is changed

- Owner: Yue Wang(@captainroy-hy), Jianbo Sun(@wonderflow)
- Date: 11/24/2020
- Status: Implemented

## Intro
When an ApplicationConfiguration is deployed, 

> vela-core will create(apply) corresponding workload/trait instances and keep them stay inline with the `spec` defined in ApplicationConfiguration through periodical reconciliation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vela-core will create(apply) corresponding workload/trait instances and keep them stay align with the `spec` defined in ApplicationConfiguration through periodical reconciliation. 
```

> If `Apply-Once-Only` is enabled, after creating workload/trait instances, vela-core will skip reconciling them even if they are changed by others (e.g., trait controller, workload controller,etc). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we run vela-core with `--apply-once-only` flag enabled, vela-core will never apply the workload and trait instance after them was applied once. Even if they are changed by others (e.g., trait controller, workload controller,etc). 
```

> Since the create operation is the only one apply operation occurring on workload/trait, we call this mechanism as `Apply-Once-Only`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the create operation is the only one apply operation occurring on workload/trait, we call this mechanism as `Apply Once Only`.
```

## A Motivational Example
Here is a scenario from production environment to demonstrate how `Apply-Once-Only` works.

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha2
kind: ApplicationConfiguration
metadata:
  name: example-appconfig
spec:
  components:
    - componentName: example-component
---
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha2
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: example-component
spec:
  workload:
    apiVersion: standard.oam.dev/v1alpha1

>     kind: PodSpecWorkload

Reviewer: Using apps/v1 Deployment is better

Author: got it.

    spec:
      podSpec:
        containers:
          - image: sample/app:1.0
            name: sample-app
```

After deploying above ApplicationConfiguration, vela-core will create a Deployment with corresponding `PodTemplateSpec`. 

In production env, it's possible to change the Deployment according to particular requirements, e.g., RolloutTrait, AutoscalerTrait,etc.
Currently, we just use `kubectl` to simulate workload is changed bypass changing the ApplicationConfiguration. 
Below cmd changes `spec.template.spec.containers[0].image` of the Deployment from `sample/app:1.0` to `sample/app:2.0`.
```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl patch deployment example-deploy --patch
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: sample-app
        image: sample/app:2.0
EOF
```

Above change will trigger recreate of Pods owned by the Deployment. 
But vela-core will change it back to `sample/app:1.0` in the following reconciliation soon or late. 
That's not what we expect in some scenarios.

> Instead, we hope vela-core skip reconciling the workload we changed and leave them as what they are now util we change the `spec` of their parent ApplicationConfiguration .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, we hope vela-core ignore reconciling the workload we changed and leave them as what they are now until we change the `spec` of their parent ApplicationConfiguration .
```

## Goals

> Add a switch in vela-core runtime to allow users choose whether always reconcile workload/trait, especially when they are changed by others. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a startup parameter for vela-core controller to allow users choose whether to enable apply only once or not. 
```

> If the switch is ON, workload/trait will be applied only one time (that is, when they are created).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If enabled, workload/trait will be applied only one time for each resource generation(only when the corresponding appconfig/component created or updated).
```

> After workload/trait is created, vela-core should skip reconcile and apply them EXCEPT below situations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After workload/trait created/updated and aligned to the generation of appconfig, vela-core will not apply them EXCEPT below situations:
```

> - The `spec` of ApplicationConfiguration is changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `spec` of ApplicationConfiguration is changed( new generation created)
```

- The revision of Component is changed

> If the switch is OFF, vela-core will always reconcile and apply workload/trait.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the mechanism is disabled, vela-core will always reconcile and apply workload/trait periodically as usual.
```

## Implementation

In each round of reconciliation, vela-core compares below Labels & Annotations of existing workload/trait with newly rendered ones before patch-applying or updating-applying. 
```yaml
Labels:
    app.oam.dev/revision
    app.oam.dev/component
    app.oam.dev/name
Annotations:

>     app.oam.dev/generation # generation of ApplicationConfiguration

Reviewer: Please give a complete example here to explain detail of the implementation

Author: Okay
